# CWL Governance
This repository holds public material generated by and for the CWL board.

CWL is a member project of Software Freedom Conservancy and is required to adhere
to Conservancy's corporate policies, as applicable.  In particular,
please see [Conservancy's Travel Policy](https://sfconservancy.org/projects/policies/conservancy-travel-policy.html) and
Conflicts of Interest Policy. These policies are
published at <https://sfconservancy.org/projects/policies/>, with source
in Git <https://k.sfconservancy.org/policies/>.

# Specification release process

The process of approving and releasing new versions of Common Workflow
Language and associated specifications is detailed in
[releases.md](releases.md) .

# Donations

## Donations by check

We can accept check donations drawn in USD
from banks in the USA. (Donations from banks outside of the US or not in
USD should be handled by wire).

Make the check payable to "Software Freedom
Conservancy, Inc." and to place "Directed donation: Common Workflow
Language" in the memo field.  Checks should then be mailed to:

        Software Freedom Conservancy, Inc.
        137 Montague ST  STE 380
        BROOKLYN, NY 11201
        USA

## Donations by wire

We can accept donations via wire in USD, EUR, GBP, and CAD, but we
usually send the the instructions on a case-by-case basis as they are
different depending on the country of origin and currency.  Please just
note that donors wishing to send a wire contact
<supporters@tix.sfconservancy.org>.

## Donations by PayPal

Donations can also be made via PayPal in USD via https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=Z55VS5LBBSZTJ

# Contacting the CWL leadership team & Conservancy

commonworkflowlanguage@sfconservancy.org simultaneously contacts Conservancy *and* the CWL leadership team.

This address should be CC'ed regarding all activities that involve
activities of Common Workflow Language that related to things other than
software development and documentation, and particularly any activities
that expect to make use of Software Freedom Conservancy's non-profit
status.  Conservancy folks will often CC that address any time there is
an issue that Conservancy wants to make sure the project is aware.

To update any of the email addresses on this list, the CWL project leader should email sysadmin@tix.sfconservancy.org with 
`commonworkflowlanguage@sfconservancy.org` in the CC field.

# Contacting just the CWL leadership team

cwl-leadership@googlegroups.com

# Contacting employees of Conservancy

They are available much of the time by IRC: ircs://chat.freenode.net:6697/conservany
or https://webchat.freenode.net/#conservancy

If you need to contact Conservancy staff about something related to paying
someone, email accounts-payable at tix dot sfconservancy dot org. For
something related to money coming in, like a sponsorship, please email
accounts-receivable at tix dot sfconservancy dot org. For technical related
things, email sysadmin at tix dot sfconservancy dot org. For anything
connected to legal matters, email legal at tix dot sfconservancy dot org.

# Finances

CWL leadership team members can email
<commonworkflowlanguage@sfconservancy.org> to request reports on our
funds in Conservancy funds, or ask questions about the existing balance
and/or expenses.

When one has project expenses that should be
reimbursed or paid, please send (or ask the reimbursement-seeker to
send) the full details to <accounts-payable@tix.sfconservancy.org>.  If
the expense hasn't already been approved by the project, and/or Accounts
Payable hasn't been given a copy of that approval, CC'ing
<commonworkflowlanguage@sfconservancy.org> on the request is a good idea.

# Records held at Conservancy

Conservancy stores records on behalf of CWL which are managed via subversion. The are primarily legal records.
Included is the Fiscal Sponsorship Agreement, and copies of grant proposals. 
The ledger of CWL's fund was located here, but as of 2020-05-18 Conservancy has switched to another reporting system. 

Access to these records is available to any member of the CWL leadership team.

As of 2018-04-18 the fingerprints for the records server are
```
1024 SHA256:Jlu69oskv1cKbB+oXh2fX9N4lkGTcLPxmG316SLis3A root@localhost (DSA)
256 SHA256:fQELcImpIk7onyZ5CD19p/XQtgNa16f7EEyMh/Jqet8 root@localhost (ECDSA)
256 SHA256:kPcWSIy5fkKONHqRAu3PY7yAQ/CNwQ5j22NrYPaZc8w root@localhost (ED25519)
2048 SHA256:UFk7QxW3IhennfisJjtTpwrTEH1zWrKwDFLgnb7CN/0 root@localhost (RSA)
```
